How to add a new continent to the Overland - Version 4.0
--------------------------------------------------------

Version 4.0 - Samson: Completely rewritten now that maps can be added via OLC. [1-13-2025]
Version 3.02 - Samson: Updated for current codebase standards on Nov. 26, 2014.
Further typo and logic fixes provided by RazorZero 9/23/03
Modified by Kilroy of The Obsidian Palace 6/13/2003
Modified by Kilroy of The Obsidian Palace 5/9/2002
part 2.2 Contibuted to by Kilroy of OP & Dwip of Alsherok 5/9/2002

Keep in mind that adding an additional continent will increase your
RAM and disk usage. You should check to see that your site quotas
will allow you to do this before beginning.

Pick a one word name to use for your new map. This one word name will be referenced
throughout the creation. Where you see "MAPNAME" referenced, substitute the name you've chosen

1. Perhaps the most time consuming step - create a graphic image of the new map using
colors for terrain that conform to the table in RGB.txt.

This will no doubt require ALOT of time, patience, and effort.
The file should be saved as a png graphic named MAPNAME.png.

The dimensions of the image file MUST NOT exceed 1000x1000. Anything larger than that
will not work. At the very least, the game will simply crop to 1000x1000 when loading the file.
At worst, it will crash the game.

It may be easier to allow the game to generate the file and then use that file to edit from.

Note: This step can be skipped initially if you want to make the png file later. (See Step 5)

2. Generate an area file to associate with the new map, with filename MAPNAME.are.
When the map is created, this file will be required to house the room it needs to function.

3. In the game, issue the command:

mapcreate MAPNAME

This will initialize the basic data for the new map and automatically associate to the area file
you generated in step 2. If that area isn't yet in the game, the command will fail.

4. In the game, issue the command:

mapedit vnum MAPNAME <some number>

The number specified must be a room contained within MAPNAME.are and will be rejected if it doesn't
exist there. This room is what will be used by the game to store all the players, mobs, and objects
present on the graphical map.

Make sure that in the area file, this room has exits in all 8 movement directions, or people are
not going to be able to navigate your map properly.

5. In the game, issue the command:

mapedit png MAPNAME

This will initialize the map grid to ocean sectors.
If the file exists on disk, it will be read from there.
If not, a new file is saved with nothing but ocean sectors to start with.

6. To verify that the map is working, issue the following command in the game:

goto map MAPNAME X Y

X and Y can be anywhere from 0 to 999 on the map. You should see an ANSI representation
of your map.

7. In mudcfg.cpp, check_room, find:

   if( !str_cmp( dieroom->area->continent->name, "One" ) )
      location = get_room_index( ROOM_VNUM_ALTAR );

Add a new section to reflect your new continent, if you wish for it to send
dead players to a different location that the default ROOM_VNUM_ALTAR room.
You will also need to edit mudcfg.h to add new room targets to the well known
rooms section.

Similar changes should be made in the recall_room function, as well as adding to the
pc_data class to support additional locations for recalls.